Module 2 Challenge
Due Dec 16, 2022 by 1:59am Points 100 Submitting a text entry box or a website url
Background
You are well on your way to becoming a programmer and Excel expert! In this homework assignment, you will use VBA scripting to analyze generated stock market data.

Before You Begin
Create a new repository for this project called VBA-challenge. Do not add this assignment to an existing repository.

Inside the new repository that you just created, add any VBA files that you use for this assignment. These will be the main scripts to run for each analysis.

Files
Download the following files to help you get started:

Module 2 Challenge filesLinks to an external site.

Instructions
Create a script that loops through all the stocks for one year and outputs the following information:

The ticker symbol

Yearly change from the opening price at the beginning of a given year to the closing price at the end of that year.

The percentage change from the opening price at the beginning of a given year to the closing price at the end of that year.

The total stock volume of the stock. The result should match the following image:

Moderate solution
Add functionality to your script to return the stock with the "Greatest % increase", "Greatest % decrease", and "Greatest total volume". The solution should match the following image:

Hard solution
Make the appropriate adjustments to your VBA script to enable it to run on every worksheet (that is, every year) at once.

NOTE
Make sure to use conditional formatting that will highlight positive change in green and negative change in red.

Other Considerations
Use the sheet alphabetical_testing.xlsx while developing your code. This dataset is smaller and will allow you to test faster. Your code should run on this file in under 3 to 5 minutes.

Make sure that the script acts the same on every sheet. The joy of VBA is that it takes the tediousness out of repetitive tasks with the click of a button.

Requirements
Retrieval of Data (20 points)
The script loops through one year of stock data and reads/ stores all of the following values from each row:

ticker symbol (5 points)

volume of stock (5 points)

open price (5 points)

close price (5 points)

Column Creation (10 points)
On the same worksheet as the raw data, or on a new worksheet all columns were correctly created for:

ticker symbol (2.5 points)

total stock volume (2.5 points)

yearly change ($) (2.5 points)

percent change (2.5 points)

Conditional Formatting (20 points)
Conditional formatting is applied correctly and appropriately to the yearly change column (10 points)

Conditional formatting is applied correctly and appropriately to the percent change column (10 points)

Calculated Values (15 points)
All three of the following values are calculated correctly and displayed in the output:

Greatest % Increase (5 points)

Greatest % Decrease (5 points)

Greatest Total Volume (5 points)

Looping Across Worksheet (20 points)
The VBA script can run on all sheets successfully.
GitHub/GitLab Submission (15 points)
All three of the following are uploaded to GitHub/GitLab:

Screenshots of the results (5 points)

Separate VBA script files (5 points)

README file (5 points)

Grading
This assignment will be evaluated against the requirements and assigned a grade according to the following table:

Grade	Points
A (+/-)	90+
B (+/-)	80–89
C (+/-)	70–79
D (+/-)	60–69
F (+/-)	< 60
Submission
To submit your Challenge assignment, click Submit, and then provide the URL of your GitHub repository for grading.

NOTE
You are allowed to miss up to two Challenge assignments and still earn your certificate. If you complete all Challenge assignments, your lowest two grades will be dropped. If you wish to skip this assignment, click Next, and proceed to the next module.

Comments are disabled for graded submissions in Bootcamp Spot. If you have questions about your feedback, please notify your instructional staff or your Student Success Manager. If you would like to resubmit your work for an additional review, you can use the Resubmit Assignment button to upload new links. You may resubmit up to three times for a total of four submissions.

References
Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC, and is intended for educational purposes only.
Crowdfunding_Project
Option Explicit

Sub Multiple_year_Stock_Market_Data()

' Declare variables
Dim ws As Worksheet
Dim lastRow As Long
Dim ticker As String
Dim closing_price As Double
Dim yearly_change As Double
Dim percent_change As Double
Dim volume As Double
Dim dataRow As Long
Dim outputRow As Long
Dim openingPrices As Object

Set openingPrices = CreateObject("Scripting.Dictionary")

outputRow = 2

' Loop through each worksheet
For Each ws In ThisWorkbook.Worksheets
    ws.Activate
    lastRow = Cells(Rows.Count, "A").End(xlUp).row
    ' Add the labels for the summary column headers
    Cells(1, 9).Value = "Ticker"
    Cells(1, 10).Value = "Yearly Change"
    Cells(1, 11).Value = "Percent Change"
    Cells(1, 12).Value = "Total Stock Volume"
    Cells(2, 14).Value = "Greatest % Increase"
    Cells(3, 14).Value = "Greatest % Decrease"
    Cells(4, 14).Value = "Greatest Total Volume"

    ' Loop through each row in the column
    For dataRow = 2 To lastRow
        ticker = Cells(dataRow, 1).Value
        closing_price = Cells(dataRow, 6).Value

        ' Store the opening price for the ticker if it hasn't been stored already
        If Not openingPrices.Exists(ticker) Then
            openingPrices(ticker) = Cells(dataRow, 3).Value
        End If

        ' Add the volume until a new ticker is found
        volume = volume + Cells(dataRow, 7).Value

        ' If a new ticker is found, print it to the new table and retrieve the opening price from the dictionary
        If Cells(dataRow + 1, 1).Value <> ticker Then
            ' Retrieve the opening price from the dictionary
            Dim opening_price As Double
            opening_price = openingPrices(ticker)

            ' Calculate yearly change and percentage change
            yearly_change = closing_price - opening_price

            ' Ignore the 0's
            If opening_price <> 0 Then
                percent_change = (yearly_change / opening_price) * 100
            End If

            ' Apply results in the new table
            Cells(outputRow, 9).Value = ticker
            Cells(outputRow, 10).Value = yearly_change
            Cells(outputRow, 11).Value = percent_change
            Cells(outputRow, 12).Value = volume

            ' Formatting
            Cells(outputRow, 11).Value = Format(Cells(outputRow, 11) / 100, "#.####%")

            Dim cell As Variant
            cell = ws.Cells(outputRow, 10).Value
            Set cell = ws.Cells(outputRow, 10)

            If cell < 0 Then
                cell.Interior.ColorIndex = 3
            ElseIf cell > 0 Then
                cell.Interior.ColorIndex = 4
            End If

            ' Reset the volume for the new stock
            volume = 0

            ' Increment the row for the new stock
            outputRow = outputRow + 1
        End If
    Next dataRow
Next ws

End Sub
